The license agreement

1. Object of the license. 
 Object of the license is the program - BS Explorer shell including program, 
language modules, files of a configuration. And also, the help to the program, a 
file readme, a history of versions and this license agreement.

2. Scope of licence.
 The program is Freeware, therefore you can do(make) with her everything, that 
want, except for the restrictions directly specified in item №3 of the given 
agreement.

3. Restrictions.
- A copyright. It is forbidden to delete or change any notices on copyrights on 
all components of the program.
- Prohibition of commercial distribution. It is forbidden to distribute the 
given program возмездное. Exception makes
 the reimbursement for a data carrier and copying. Inclusion in any collections 
and accommodation on web-pages without the consent of the author is forbidden.
 At the same time, the Agreement does not forbid use of the program in 
commercial objectives.
- Structure of the program. It is forbidden to distribute the changed complete 
set.
- Use of the program should be carried out according to the current legislation.
- Decompiling, reverse ingenering and other actions are not forbidden. But it is 
much easier to communicate with me and to ask initial texts of the program.

4. The copyright.
 All rights belong Boa Software on behalf of its(her) unique representative Boa 
aka Yri Safonow.
Separate parts of a code belong:

To author ReactOs Explorer Martin Fuchs
(http://www.sky.franken.de/explorer/) 

Sherpya <sherpya@hotmail.com> 

5. Refusal of guarantees. 
 Freeware. Is as - it is short and clear. Therefore - what guarantees. Or all 
risk of the use of the given breakage
 You take up or press DEL and overlook about him. I can guarantee only, that at 
the moment of creation of the given archive of viruses in him was not. And she 
does not format the screw. And passwords by mail does not send. I.e. only that, 
what is it not троян and not a virus. As, it is necessary to remind, what is it 
- the test version of the program, and besides, the program was initially 
written for " the internal use " and I did not plan her(it) to distribute. 

6. Refusal of the responsibility for indirect damage.
 To the greatest degree, admitted by the current legislation, I refuse to 
bear(carry) a liability for any concrete, casual, indirect or connected damage 
(where enter, including, all without exception kinds of losses: the half-
received profit, the termination(discontinuance) of activity of the enterprise, 
loss of the important information, damage of the equipment or any other losses), 
arisen because of use or impossibility of use of the given program even if 
representatives of firm have been warned about an opportunity of occurrence of 
such damage.

7. It is distributed freely under condition of an invariance of the program and 
structure of archive. 
