
                       What's New in the Latest Version
                       --------------------------------


  Reg Organizer 5.45
  ------------------

 * Increased usability:

	1) Registry editor: When saving a key to a file, the default file name 
	   which corresponds to the name of the key is offered.

	2) Dynamic resizing of the elements in the program's windows. In the
	   earlier versions, the size of the elements changed only after a user 
	   released the mouse button. Now elements change their size 
	   dynamically as if moving the mouse cursor with the button pressed.

 * Application Uninstaller tool:	

	1) Application traces searching algorithm has been improved. Now when
	   uninstalling an application via Reg Organizer, it detects more 
	   data left by the uninstalled application in the system.

	2) An ability to install updates to the applications installed with 
	   tracing.

	3) Now you can install applications with tracing directly from the 
	   Windows Explorer's context menu.

	4) The support for simultaneous removal of two or more applications 
	   has been added. The list of applications in the Application 
	   Uninstaller tool window now supports multiple selection.

	5) While an application is being uninstalled with its built-in 
	   uninstall tool, an ability to start searching for the application's 
	   traces without waiting for the uninstall process to finish has
	   been added. This works best when the default uninstaller of
	   a program works incorrectly or halts.

	6) The System Restore Point creation during the uninstall now
	   may be disabled in the program's Settings.

 * Windows 8 Release Preview support.

 * Bugs fixed:

	1) Fixed the error "Failed to get data for" in the Registry Cleanup 
	   tool while checking the "Shell Commands" registry part.

	2) Registry editor: Column sorting didn't work for the tabs of 
	   reg-files.

	3) The "Shared Libraries" section of the Manual Registry Cleanup 
	   tool could display a negative number in the "Hist Applications" 
	   column. This could happen if the number was too big, for example, 
	   2147483648.

	4) Portable version: The program could leave two empty folders in the 
	   data folders of the system.

	5) If the option "Restore registry location of the previous session" 
	   was turned off, that necessary registry path didn't open if a user
	   switched to it from the Registry Cleanup or Application Uninstaller 
	   tools.

